Meta-documentation 2026 (#155)
pretix/pretix-docs: docs/guides/meta/formatting.md

You can insert additional empty lines using `<br>`.
If you are inserting an image between two paragraphs, but the image concerns the content of only one of the paragraphs, insert additional empty lines.
Insert `<br>` between the image and the topically **separate** paragraph.

### Icons

As of 05/2026, pretix uses Font Awesome 3 icons and some custom icons.
You can find these icons in the repo at `/overrides/.icons/`.
In order to insert an icon into the text, use `:fa3-iconname:`, where `iconname` is the filename of the icon minus the file type extension.
For example, use `:fa3-transgender-alt:` for the icon :fa3-transgender-alt: and use `:i-seat:` for :i-seat:.

### Buttons

Mark all buttons that you want the user to click the following way:

```
:btn:Button Label:
```

If a button includes an icon, include the icon before the button label:

```
:btn-icon:icon-name:Button Label:
```

Example:

```
The :btn-icon:fa3-upload: Import vouchers: button lets you upload such a list after saving it from a different event.
```

>The :btn-icon:fa3-upload: Import vouchers: button lets you upload such a list after saving it from a different event.

> If the button only contains an icon, use the button format on that label:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the button contains only an icon, use the button format on that label:
```

Example:

```
If the seats on your layout have a distance of `25`, you could enter the number `30`.
```

>If the seats on your layout have a distance of `25`, you could enter the number `30`.

### Screenshots

Take screenshots of the pretix backend in a resolution of 1200 × 800 pixels.
Resize your browser window or use the "Responsive Design View" in Firefox by pressing Ctrl + Shift + M.
Log in as "Jordan Doe".
Manage the "Tutorial Ltd." organizer account.
Edit the "Tutorial Conference" event.
If the page in question is specific to event series, edit "Tutorial series" instead.

If you do **not** have access to these accounts or events, edit your screenshots with the top and sidebar of already existing screenshots.

If you are adding the screenshot to help the user with navigating the website, that is, you want them to know they are on the right page, do **not** use highlighting.
If you want to tell the user to interact with one specific element on the page, highlight that element.
Use the color OrangeRed #FF4500 (255, 69, 0) for highlighting.
Use the Fontawesome-3 arrow symbols and boxes with a width of [0.5em](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Em_(typography)).

> Take a look at the screenshots in the [tutorial](../../tutorial/getting-started.md) to get an idea what it should look like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take a look at the screenshots in the [tutorial](../../tutorial/getting-started.md) to get an idea of what it should look like.
```

Save screenshots in one of the directories in `/pretix-docs/site/assets/screens/`.
If there is no directory corresponding to your subject, create a new one.
Choose a straightforward and descriptive name for the screenshot.
Use a hyphen-minus `-` to separate two words in the filename.

### Image descriptions

> You can find basic information on how to write a good image description at [Axess Lab](https://axesslab.com/alt-texts/).

Reviewer: > You can find basic information on how to write a good image description at [Axess Lab](https://axesslab.com/alt-texts/).

The main point is easily summarized in a sentence or two, why not add it instead of turning further resources into required reading?

> This is how you include an image description in markdown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is how you include an image description in Markdown:
```

```
![Media description for visually impaired users or users with an unreliable internet connection](../path/to/file.png "Image Title")
```

Example:

```

> ![Screenshot of page titled "Create new Event–Step 2", showing options for choosing name, short form, date, location, and geo coordinates for the event. Not pictured: currency, sales tax rate, time zone, start and end date of presale.](../assets/screens/event/create-event2.png "Create new event step 2 screenshot")

Reviewer: > ![Screenshot of page titled "Create new Event–Step 2", showing options for choosing name, short form, date, location, and geo coordinates for the event. Not pictured: currency, sales tax rate, time zone, start and end date of presale.](../assets/screens/event/create-event2.png "Create new event step 2 screenshot")

This seems rather specific. In most cases, an image description should describe things actually visible in the image, not things **not** visible in the image.

```

### Admonitions

If you want to tell the reader about legal, technical, or irreversible actions, use colored text boxes.
The color is based on ISO standards:

 - **Blue** for notes
 - **Yellow** for warnings

Use three exclamation marks and a space `!!! ` followed by the box type.
If you do specify a title, the title of the box will default to the type ("Note" or "Warning").
Indent the text of the warning with four spaces.
To continue with normal text, insert an empty line and remove the indentation.

Example:

```
!!! Note
    Reading note boxes is useful.
```

> This raw text results in the following warning:

Reviewer: > This raw text results in the following warning:

Given the content of your example, calling this a warning is entertaining but still inaccurate. It is specifically a note and not a warning, thus the name.

!!! Note
    Reading note boxes is useful.

If you use a note or warning box in multiple articles, place it in the `include` directory.
If you use it in only one article, you do not have to do that.
In that case, include the warning in the article.

To include a reusable text block, use the following formatting:

{% raw %}
```
`{% include "note-translations.md" %}`
```
{% endraw %}

MkDocs also supports other types of admonitions.
The pretix documentation currently only uses notes and warnings.
If you think it is necessary to use any other type of admonition, talk to the team.

### Links and cross-references

Insert external or internal links wherever they are relevant.
Provide context for those links.
Make them as informative as possible in their descriptive text (the part that is visible to readers in the text and looks like a hyperlink).
Make them large enough so that the reader can click them without great effort.
Single words such as "here" and "next" are **not** suitable as link text.

Screen readers sometimes read out contextless lists of links.
Hearing the link text "here" five times in a row is **not** very informative.

> Even without a screen reader, it helpful for the reader if they have a general idea what is behind the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even without a screen reader, it is helpful for the reader to get a general idea of what is behind the link.
```

> MkDocs uses different symbols to precede internal and external links in the documentation visible to readers to make it easier to distinguish between them.

Reviewer: > MkDocs uses different symbols to precede internal and external links in the documentation visible to readers to make it easier to distinguish between them.

More accurately, one symbol precedes internal links while external links are followed by a different symbol.

You do not have to specify this because it works automatically.
The formatting for both types of links is "link text in square brackets, URL/path in round brackets".

> Insert cross references to a subheading within another (or the same) article work as follows:

Reviewer: > Insert cross references to a subheading within another (or the same) article work as follows:

After verbally describing the rest of the link formatting, why omit this last element from the description?

```
[monitoring incoming payments](/payment/bank-transfer.md#monitoring-incoming-payments)
```

If you want to link to the entire article, omit the # symbol and the parts after it.
You can also omit parts of the file path that are identical to the path of the current file.
Examples:

```
Our organizer's profile and all the events we are going to create will be found at [https://pretix.eu/tut/](https://pretix.eu/tut/) from now on.

 In this tutorial, we will be:

 - creating a [personal and organizer account](getting-started.md#creating-an-account)
 - setting up our [organizer account](organizer-account.md)
 - creating our [event](event.md)
```

Remove any umlaut from the part of the link after the `#`.
For example, replace `ö` with `o`.

> If you link an article that is not yet available (for example due to an open pull request), GitHub will throw a warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you link to an article that is not yet available (for example due to an open pull request), GitHub will throw a warning.
```

To avoid this, put a space between square and round brackets and leave a corresponding comment starting with "TK":

```
TK fix link after merge
```

### Articles specific to Germany

> Some articles in our documentary are only relevant for the German-speaking world, for instance because they concern organizations that only exist in Germany.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some articles in our documentation are only relevant for the German-speaking world, for instance because they concern organizations that only exist in Germany.
```
